It was Ned, this is a date for you tonight at the
party over at the judge's house. And so that was a
very memorable singing cadet trip. I believe that
was the sophomore spring semester that that
happened. This is a note to the typist, an
editorial note. If I'm not mistaken, this Mr.
Smith or his brother came to the campus to try to
lobby the board then called the board of directors
to vote against coeducation and I with another
young faculty member in history we took off our
coats and ties so we might not be recognized very
much and stood in the background as he met with what
he called the leaders of the senior class in the
hallway of the MSC on second floor straight above
the check-in desk and as I recall he told them that
he urged them to go and argue against co-education
non-compulsory core higher admission
requirements and so forth and he lost his audience
though when he told the group that A&M was not
teaching the practical things now. They weren't
giving enough attention to the slide rule, to
their verbs and their pronouns and their
diagramming of sentences, and that you really
didn't need any math beyond trigonometry. And as
he was saying those things, we could see the look on
the senior class members' faces like this old man
has lost it. He's out of touch. and he asked the
senior class president to go with him to join him in
speaking against the changes, and the senior
class president, whomever it was that year, stood
up and identified himself and said, the senior
class has not yet discussed these topics. No one,
neither I nor anyone else, can speak for the senior
class on these topics. They can speak as
individuals. but you cannot argue that the senior
class is for or against any of this. Well, as a
result, there were almost no students that went
with it. Back to singing cadets. Do you remember
any... His grandson, T.M. Smith's grandson, was
T.M. Smith III. He was a classmate of mine in Class
63. During your singing cadet experience, do you
remember any particularly proud moments? Oh,
yes, yes, getting Mickey Mantle's signature and
helping him walk downstairs as, you call it a prank
if you want to, but as you know, the singing cadets
were escorts to the Miss Teenage American pageant
for a good number of years, and I made, I think,
three of those pageants, and one of those
pageants... The judges for the pageant, Mickey
Mantle was a judge. This actress by the name of
White, Betty White, Betty White was a judge. A guy
named Al Ludden or something, Al Ludden maybe was a
judge. I got all their signatures, and from the
stage, the girls would come down these stairs, and
the judges were up there, and during one of the
rehearsals, Mickey Mantle was going to walk down
these stairs, and I grabbed his arm and helped him
down the stairs like I would one of the girls. Yeah,
that was very memorable. And my last year in the
cadets... I had laid out the one semester, so I
actually graduated in January of 64 instead of May
or June of 63 because of laying out that semester.
And I guess it was that last semester in October of
63,
I was married and my wife got pregnant and we went to
the Miss Teenage America pageant and the guy that
was really producing the Miss Teenage America
pageant was one of the big owners of Six Flags and a
bunch of us went to Six Flags and my wife and I and
with her pregnant we rode everything at Six Flags.
I remember that very well. What moments of singing
a special A&M song did you feel most proud? Where,
when, or how? Well, you have to advance my career a
long way. I was a dean of
undergraduate affairs in the College of
Engineering. Bob Boone could not make a
commencement exercise. And Bob Boone called me
and he said, you're leading commencement spirit
of Aggieland. Can you do it? And I said, what a
pleasure. Yes, I guess as far as a proud moment to be
at commencement and do that for Bob Boone, who no
one replaced Bob Boone, number one. But to do that
was just most memorable. And, of course, you know,
we always performed very, very strong patriotic
and solid religious programs when I was in the
cadets. And even after that, and I have made many of
the spring concerts and gone to the stage when
Boone would ask former cadets to come to the stage.
So all of those were very, very... very, very
special to me. But I think leading the crowd in the
spirit of a commencement had to be very, very
special. Did you get involved in any MSC
activities? Yes, I participated again in the Ham
Radio Club and three or four other committees
within the MSC. I don't know that I can even tell you
what all those committees were now. How many were
in the Ham Radio Club in your years? Oh, goodness,
maybe 20, 25 maybe. And I kept up with some of those
guys. And where was your radio room? It was on the
second floor of the MSC.
little small small room that looked out on the
front side of the student center had one little
window that you could see out the front side and
antenna was mounted up on the on the top of the
building and we spent a lot of our time trying to get
money to upgrade equipment But it was on the second
floor. Have any idea how long that lasted? How many
years? The radio club? It was in existence when I
got there, and it was there when I left, and I
don't... W5AC may still exist. I don't know. And
you don't know whether it goes back to the 20s or
not? I want to say that it goes way, way back, even to
maybe the time when the first game was broadcast. I
don't know whether there was an association or
relationship between those two or not, but just
the fact that it's W5AC tells you it's an old, old,
old station because of the call letters. Number
one, because it's just a two-call. And it's very
early in the alphabet, AC. So W5AC was very, very
early in the alphabet. owned in the Hound Radio
community. Did you get involved in any local
religious, did you attend? Yes, I attended church
very religiously, Haskell. At Northgate? No, at
Little Church of Christ over in Bryan. That's
where I met my wife. And my wife was... working at
what was then called the Texas A&M Press and it's
what is called today the Printing Center. But they
did everything, anything that was printed or
published on the campus of A&M was done at the A&M
Press and my wife is on the front page of the
battalion fall of 1963 holding up Texas A&M
University. That was when the name changed. In
fact, my Aggie ring, Class of 63, reads A&M College
of Texas. And you'll notice my Bachelor of Science
diploma says Texas A&M University. So that's when
it happened. I got caught by laying out that
semester. I'm not an A&M College of Texas
graduate. I'm a Texas A&M University graduate.
All right. So you're in the Corps when you meet her.
When y'all were courting, where would y'all go?
Oh, gosh. Where would you go to eat? We would go to a
place where First Federal Savings and Loans,
First Federal Bank is now. That was the best place,
I mean the highestfalutin place in town, if you
will, and that was called,
oh, goodness, Haskell. I'll think of it before the
day is over. On down the road past there was, over on
South College, was the Triangle and the Texan. And
we could also go there at the Circle, which was at
Northgate. There was a hamburger joint there on
the circle. You could go there. There were two or
three greasy spoons at Northgate. Nothing like
what's there now, but two or three little old cafes
there. You could go there, but I didn't take Miss
Walton there very often when we were recording. If
we went to a movie, we went to... a Bryan movie. The
campus was a little bit more rowdy, so I wouldn't
take it. I said I wouldn't take it. We typically did
not go there. And so that was pretty much it. Being
church crash members, you all didn't go out and do
wild drinking. No, no drinking and no dancing. Not
that we had anything against dancing, either one.
I was just never were much dancers. It was fairly
laid back. I remember before we married in
December of what would, when I was in the core of
December of my senior years when we married. And
then I graduated in, that would be December of 62. I
graduated in January of 64, which is just a little
over a year after that. And where did y'all live
then? Well, now, just before, I was in dorm two when
we got married, and she lived over on Ash Street in
College Station, just over at what we call the
Eastgate area. And she and her mother would make
cakes and pies and coffee and what have you. And
Miss Walton would, she was a Douglas, Etta
Douglas, Etta would call the guard room and one of
the fish would come up to my room and say, Mr.
Walton, sir, the lady is on the phone. We didn't
have phones in the rooms those days. I'd go down to
the dorm room, and I'd call her, and she'd say, hey,
I got a pie made, or I got some coffee made. Would you
like to come over? And I would. We would go over and
visit with her. And when we married, this is a long
story, and I guess maybe I can tell you the
shortened version and see what you think about it
as far as the appropriateness is concerned. When I
took my physical exam... for advanced contract,
to get a military advanced contract. I failed the
physical. And it was, I thought they were picking
on me because I failed it. And the reason I failed it
is because of the little accident that I'd had as a
freshman. And I had a minor back injury. I mean, it
wasn't bad, but minor back injury. I just
literally begged them to let me be examined again,
that I really wanted the advance contract. But in
an interim period of time, there was a professor of
civil engineering named Jim Bob Beatty. And Jim
Bob Beatty taught water, sewer, and sanitation.
And the Medical Service Corps was looking for
civil engineering graduates to go into the
Medical Service Corps to run water systems,
sanitation systems, sewer systems, and what have
you. And those were what were called direct
commissions. And they would just take you right
straight as a BS graduate. And what was not only so
great about it, if you really qualified what they
were looking for, you got to go in as a first
lieutenant rather than a second lieutenant, just
like the vets did. So Jim Bob Beatty was a very, he
was a special prof. Jim Beatty and I communicated
very well. I had told him about not passing my
physical and didn't know what I was going to do, and
he said, well, I'll tell you what you do. You just
take some specialization in sanitation above and
beyond the basic water and sewer, and I know how to
help you. And sure enough, he did. He got me in
communication with the Medical Service Corps,
and it was kind of left at, yeah, you get your BS
degree and you have these courses. We'll take you.
We need you. And so I was preparing to do that, as a
matter of fact, and... Then I got married, and when
I got married, Colonel Joe Davis was a commandant,
and I went over and I talked to him. I said, you know,
I really don't know how to say this, don't know what
to say, but you know the problem that I've had on
getting my reexamination and what have you, and I
said, I have maybe an opportunity to go into the
medical service corps when I graduate.
What should I do? They said, well, what are your
other plans? Well, I'm going to get married, you
know, in December. And he said, well, he said, the
only smart thing for you to do is stay drilling
ceremonies in the Corps and forget about advanced
contract. I mean, you already got it. I mean, you
know, goodness, go for it. So I got married, and I
stayed through that semester in the Corps, and I
became a civilian student the last part of my
senior year. So I was in the Corps, out of the Corps,
in the Corps, and out of the Corps again. And to make
a long story short, my wife and I were married seven
months when she got pregnant. Okay? Now, this
brings up another little problem of now what do you
do? And by the way, you asked me what started it.
Where did you live? We lived over on Eccles Street
in a garage apartment and moved from Eccles Street
into Hensel Apartments, Married Student
Housing. Do you remember what did Hensel cost
then? $60. And that included all utilities and
everything, $60. And where did you all acquire the
vast amount of furniture that it must have been?
Oh, we got it from my mother, her mother and dad, my
brother, my sister, wherever we could find
something. That's the only thing. Castoffs.
Castoffs. Anyway, I ended up dropping out as a core
student there. And we lived there. And like I say,
we were married seven months. She got pregnant.
When I graduated medical service corps, do you
want me? We don't want married men. And we
certainly don't want a married man that's got a
pregnant wife. So I set it out, Haskell. And you
were anxious to... Yes, what I really thought I was
going towards, so I set it out. No draft, no
nothing. I mean, I was just sitting there, and the
only official record that was on file anywhere is
that I had not passed the physical for my advance
contracts, and they left me alone. Meanwhile,
your grades are getting better. Oh, absolutely.
I'm studying with these Army and Air Force
officers, Captain Eads and Major Davis and
Captain Custer, and all my grades are getting
better and better. I'm making better and better
impressions on my profs. You know, Walton may
amount to something someday. If you were
summarizing that for a student today, what were
the secrets of the improvement of your work?
Haskell, I think, you know, we can make excuses,
you know, and I've always had a, you know,
propensity to make an excuse when I really needed
to. I could say very poor preparation to begin
with. I had no study skills. I was the auditorium of
a class of 20 kids, like, big deal. You know, that
was because the other 19, well, you know how that
goes. I was not prepared at all for those first
couple of years. And it was a real, I mean, it was
just really tough to hang in. And Haskell, they
weeded us, they weeded students out in those days.
I'm sorry, you know, my core outfit probably
started out with 40 freshmen. It was probably 10 or
12 of those kids that graduated, period. And only
two or three of those in engineering. So it was a
terrible thing to get through it to begin with. So
there was a poor preparation, but I had no study
skills, absolutely none whatsoever. Did anybody
tell you? to improve your study skills, or did you
just graduate? No, I don't think so. I think that
was something that you just, after a while, you
assimilated and through a process of osmosis,
maybe you just got better. And I'm going to say, in
all seriousness, those three officers that I've
called by name helped me develop a discipline I
mean, they would say, at this time every day, this
is what we're going to do. And I had one of those guys
typically as a lab partner in almost all of my later
junior and all of my senior classes. And, yeah,
things just improved drastically. And even when
we went to Junction for summer surveying camp,
those three guys and I were on a four-man team at
Junction. Describe Junction. junction server.
Brutal. You're talking about Bear Bryant and his
football players out there. Listen, we didn't
have any better. It was brutal. We got up at
daylight. Y'all were out there after Yeah, we were
out there after the Bryant Saga, but there were two
groups that went to Junction every summer. One
group, the geology students, they went out there
for looking at formations and cracked rocks and
all that sort of thing that they do, and we went out
to do surveying and stream gauging and to run road
routes up the side of those little hills out there
around Junction. About how many were in your
group? Oh, goodness, we probably had 40 or 50,
maybe, at Junction in civil engineering. And
these are primarily sophomores to be? No, no,
these are seniors to be, are already deep into
their senior year. I postponed mine to that summer
after my, quote, senior year. I went in the summer
of 63, I believe it was. Well, no, it wasn't because
I was married. Who was in charge? Uncle Ed
Harrington. I don't know if you remember Ed
Harrington or not, and Joe Orr, and Bob Olson. What
was the described typical routine? Oh, and the guy
that ran Junction for the freshmen out there.
Well, see, there were those two groups, but they
had a freshman program at Junction where I don't
know if that was a beginning of fish camp or what,
but the kids would go out there and they'd take
freshman English, freshman history maybe, and
Kutash, D. Kutash was kind of running the
operations of the university at that time. That's
K-U-T-A-S-H. That sounds close, yes. I think
that's right. Yeah, Kutash, D. Kutash's. It went
like this. The civil engineering students were
dorm tent advisors. The buildings out there were
half walls and roll-up tents on the outside, and
they would have 15 or 20, 24 freshmen or something,
and one civil engineering student was the... was
the dorm master, if you would, for all those
students. And we didn't interact with them
educationally or anything. We just made sure that
they went to bed at night and got up the next
morning. Well, we got up at daylight every
morning, went to chow, and hit the classroom for a
brief introduction of what we were going to do that
day. And we surveyed or streamgaged all day until 5
o'clock. And we'd come in high o'clock,
blistered, hot, sweaty, chased a few jackrabbits
probably in the process. We'd come back in, go
through a debriefing, and we would draw up our
surveys and what have you. It was a tremendous
experience, really hands-on experience of what a
In effect, civil engineers became surveyors in
those days. You could register as a surveyor by
having a civil engineering degree. As you look
back on it now, Was it a good sound? Absolutely. I
wish that they still did something similar to
that. If it's not a surveying camp, some type of a
summer practicum where you get out and get your
feet hot and sweaty and dirty and you learn some
real practical things. And we used calculators
back in those days. You remember the old Monroe?
You remember the name Monroe? And what was the
other name of those calculators? But you would
input and you'd have to crank it, you know? to get
the decimal and the carrying your tens forward.
Those were the calculators that we had in those
days. The University of Missouri has operated
something like that, particularly for geology
and the engineers. They own about 5,000 acres
about five miles outside Lander, Wyoming. And can
you imagine how much fun it is to spend six weeks in
Wyoming? Yes. I was really just going to see A&M
give up Junction and let it go to Tech. I really was.
I was just heartbroken when that happened. awful
blunder. That Llano River and the pecan trees down
there in those bottoms there at Junction where we
had that camp was just magnificent. I still have
very vivid memories. And swimming in those holes
in the Llano. Oh, I can remember that. What I've
learned so far, correct me if I'm wrong, all the
students pretty well behaved themselves. Didn't
go into town and cause any trouble. No, that's not
true. It's not true? That's not true. Yeah, there
was... Yeah, there was always the troublemakers
that went into town. Went up on the hill, they
called it, up on the hill. Oh, that's right. And
went up on the hill and drank beer and would come
back in and Kutash or Harrington or somebody would
catch them and it would be trouble. i i will i will
tell this story it's not one that i'm particularly
proud of but it's a part of history haskell and i
think most of us confess as we get older the things
that we did in our younger days of indiscretion but
uh these three uh maybe i There were three
officers, I won't call names, that were older men
and myself and a boy from Columbus, Texas. He was
also married. We'd travel back and forth from
Junction to Bryan College Station on weekends to
see our wives. And we were going back out to
Junction the 4th of July weekend. And we stopped at
Milano, Texas. Now, let's get our words right.
Milano, Texas, which is just up the road here
outside of Caldwell. I'm sorry, Hearn, between
Hearn and Cut-Off up through Cameron. We stopped
at Milano and got a barbecued goat. There was a
barbecue going on, and we stopped to get some
barbecued goat. And the three older guys had iced
down some refreshments. It was hot, no air
conditioning in the vehicles. It was hot,
unbelievably hot. And we were driving back,
stopped at Milano. They had some ice-down
refreshments, and we all ate some barbecued, some
cabrita, and they were drinking a little bit of
refreshment. I was driving, was not. And as a
matter of fact, I won't say that I never did. I
sampled and tried to find out what that was like in
my early years at A&M. But I was not drinking. And we
got from Milano to Llano, Texas, just outside
Junction. And then the 4th of July weekend, these
three officers had some fireworks with them. And
they threw those fireworks on the courthouse lawn
in Atlanta, Texas, and we got stopped by the city
marshal or whatever he was. And the report was
forwarded over to Junction. Ed Harrington, Dr.
Harrington, got the report that there were some
Aggie civil engineering students trying to blow
up the courthouse over Atlanta. And that was kind
of in jest, too, you know, that they'd been in some
meanness. When they stopped us, they just said, If
you have another weekend or two that you're going
from Junction to Bryan College Station, drive
around Llano, okay? Don't come through Llano
again. And even that, I think, probably was in
jest. But when we got to Junction, Bob Olson met us.
before we ever got to the adjunct, to the campus
there, and said, Dr. Harrington is terribly
upset. He has heard that you guys were trying to
blow up the courthouse over at Llano, and I'm just
telling you that for your own good. And when we got
there, we got a real lecture from Ed Harrington,
and And no one was really intoxicated, although
those three guys had been drinking. The next
morning in class at 6.45 or 7 o'clock, whatever
time we went to the classroom every morning, he
just announced that, I just want you to know there
was some hell raising over in Leno yesterday, and
we don't tolerate that. Didn't call any names, and
it was over with. In summary, did he handle it the
way you think he should have? Yes, he was very
professional in handling it, but cut all four of us
a letter grade. The four of us got D's in that summer
class, and we were the top four students in the
class. We had the best product, did the best work,
but he cut us a letter grade. And I look back on that
and say, well, I don't blame him. Sure, why not? I
probably have made that kind of a harsh decision as
a prof myself. Let's see, other activity, special
things. Mentioned Gyne Hall, MSC. Did you ever
have any experience with the Quack Shack, the
hospital? Oh, yes, I did, Haskell, and a couple of
times when I really didn't, I went to the Quack
Shack to avoid harassment. You could always go to
the Quack Shack and get a, what did they call those?
You got some little, it was a little form that said
that you, you didn't have to drill for 24 hours,
whatever it was, and you could get rid of the
nonsense for sure. I went over to Quack Shack and
did that a couple times. I admit that, yes, I did. I
also went over when I had a blister on my bottom from
brooms. I got whacked a few times with a broom, an
upperclassman, and it made a blister and kind of
got infected, and I went over and... They wouldn't
know where it came from, and I told them it had
fallen down, and, you know, and they went, oh,
that's a blister, blister. It's a blood-type
blister. You don't get that from falling. And I
never told them where it came from, but they
treated it and gave me a shot, probably a
penicillin or something. It went about my merry
way, but that probably was the extent of my
association with the quack shack. But, you know,
it was right there at the end of dorm 14. You walked
out of dorm 14, and the quack shack was right there
in front of you. Describe the student body in
general when you were here. Where were they from,
family, attitude,
philosophy, etc.? ? The student body was very, as
far as geographic distribution, I thought it was
very diverse. We had the Houston kids and
Dallas-Fort Worth kids. We had a lot of kids from
Atlanta and Jefferson and Marshall and Queen City
and Shreveport and Wascom and, you know, and
McAllen. And we had folks from all around. I
thought it was rather diverse geographically. We
obviously were essentially all white, all male.
But were there some Hispanics? Oh, yes, there
were, I won't say a large number, but a very
significant number of Hispanics. German, Czech?
Oh, yeah, Bobby Zawczyk and these guys, yeah,
there were all sorts of, yeah, from ethnic
background, yeah, German, Czech. Did it matter?
No, no. I mean, we were all there together. I have
very fond memories of Ramundo Riojas, one of my
classmates from Mexico,
George Gutierrez, a lot of Hispanic civil
engineering students that I went to school with.
No, it didn't matter. I mean, we were just a group.
And Catholics and Protestants?